# FDI and Growth –Role of Service Sector in India
The paper intends to study the trend of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and employment in India particularly in the Indian Service and BPO sector. Further, it reviews the effect of FDI and increase in employment in India during the years 2000-2013. The evolution of FDI in service sector may be attributed to the changing pattern of global FDI and also the liberalization and globalization policies pursued by India. We use a simple EViews regression model to do time series analysis for a span of 13 years to determine the relationship between FDI, GDP and employment in the service sector and the telecommunication sector in India. This empirical analysis suggests that total FDI and employment exerts a definite impact on the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of India in the service sector. In the sub-sector of the service sector ie the BPOs of the telecommunication services, there has been a positive impact of FDI inflows on the GDP of the country. Since 2000, the high inflow of FDI has resulted in the growth of new services like financial and non-financial services, telecommunication, Business Processing outsourcing (BPO) etc which also affected the employment rates in the sectors. During the years 2006-2008 FDI was at its peak resulting to the highest growth rate in GDP i.e. 9.57%. There is a significantly positive relationship between FDI, employment and GDP from Services and BPOs. The growth of Service Sector had led to the growth of outsource of services from India which now accounts the majority of outsourcing from the country. Concluding section will show that there is more scope to study and how India should adapt therefore.
